>> Scott Moss: Memoizing.
So, anybody know what memoizing is?
Anybody have a definition for that?
>> Student: It's like caching the answer
to a function so that when you call
that function with the given input,
you already have the answer
if you've already called
the function with those inputs.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, it's essentially like
I have some computation that might have
been expensive.
I'm probably gonna run
it more than one time.
And it's also like a pure function.
So if I give it, let's say it's
a function that takes two numbers and
it returns the sum.
If I call that function
with the same two numbers,
it's always gonna return
the same sum no matter what.
So that is a great candidate to be
memoized because if it gets the same
arguments I can expect the same...
It's a side effect free, pure function.
So given that, yeah, memoization is really
cool because it's a form of caching
that speeds things up dramatically.
The reason it's super useful in our use
case is because we might be in a position
sometimes where we have what we call
kind of like a waterfall effect of like.
Because, now that you know that you can
have different data functions being called
in different layers when someone
refreshes just one route,
what if some of those things
call the same functions?
In the case of like get the current user.
What if the sidebar is calling get
the current user and the dashboard is
calling getCurrentUser and the issues
list is calling getCurrentUser.
All three of those load up when
you go to our index route.
So is it just gonna call that three times?
It's gonna hit our database three times.
It's gonna access the cookies three times.
It's really expensive to be doing that
performance wise and maybe even cost.
So like you want to avoid that and
memoization is a great way to do that.
The problem is you don't want
that to leak across users.
You only want that to happen for
that one request.
So that way some user doesn't
see somebody else's data, right?
So the memoization in React and
Next.js is really great because it
only works for that one request and
it's pretty simple to do.
So let's give it a try.
The way that we do that is we're gonna use
this cache function that actually comes
from React.
This isn't something Next.js made.
This is a React thing.
It's literally called cache.
And its job, it was created for
this purpose of caching functions that
you call in your React server components.
That's exactly what it's made for.
It's very reminiscent of if you've
ever built a GraphQL server.
I don't know if anybody has experience
doing that, but when you make resolvers on
a GraphQL server,
a lot of those resolvers can be cyclic and
they might call the same thing,
they might do the same thing.
So what you do is you make a data loader,
which is essentially a memoization of
the results of those computations.
So even though your GraphQL server is
cyclically calling the same things it only
ever accesses the cache.
It's pretty much the same thing.
And it happens for one request and
it significantly speeds up
your GraphQL responses.
So that's what we're gonna do here.
So getCurrentUser is a great candidate.
We call that a lot in
many different places.
And we want to cache it.
So it doesn't do it all the time,
but there's a lot of setup and
some things you need to understand
because once you set this up,
it isn't obvious that
it's actually working.
So I have to show you how to observe it,
because Next.js does some funky stuff.
So the first thing is, yeah,
let's import the cache function and
we'll wrap our getCurrentUser to use it.
So let's do that.
And that's gonna be inside of the dal here.
And this, like again,
you won't be memoizing server actions
because server actions don't
happen when a page loads up.
Server actions happen on an interaction.
You have more control of
when that gets called.
You don't really need to memoize it.
But in the case of components rendering
because somebody went to a page, yeah, you
do wanna memoize that because there's less
control of when those things get called.
That really depends on where
the components are in the render tree and
how they are architected.
So these are only gonna happen
on functions that get called for
server component.
So getCurrentUser.
Here we go.
So we have cache.
All we have to do is just say cache.
That's it.
That's all we got to do.
The other thing is, right now we
don't actually have a scenario.
Well, we do, but let's make a perfect
scenario so we can observe this.
Let's make a scenario in
which we actually do for
sure call getCurrentUser on one
request so we can observe this.
I think the best place to do this is
if you add await getCurrentUser on
the dashboard page.
We will for sure have two because if
we go look at the dashboard layout,
we're using navigation and
then navigation is using UserEmail and
then UserEmail is using getCurrentUser.
So there's one.
And then obviously the layout
is gonna render the children,
which is gonna render this page.
And if we put it here, this will be two.
So we will for sure.
So that means if you go to this page and
we add it here, getCurrentUser.
We don't need to use it.
I just wanna show you we will for
sure be calling getCurrentUser twice.
We'll be calling it here and
we'll be calling it in that navigation,
which is in the layout.
So it's a great candidate.
So what we can do is let's add a log
temu debugger, console log.
There we go.
So we can say get user,
get current user.
Right, so let's do that.
If we refresh this, I don't know why I hit
refresh in the terminal like that I was
going to do something.
Refresh this.
We'll see get current user do more
than what we thought we would see.
I don't know why I keep
hitting refresh in there.
There we go.
We'll see it a few times.
So I'm gonna talk about this.
So we should only see it two times.
We only really called it twice,
but we see it four times.
That is because while you're in
development mode Next.js will call
your component twice.
It always calls the component twice.
The reason it does that
is to help you detect any
cyclic state errors in your components.
This is because a lot of
people do a use effect and
that use effect usually can lead to a lot
of issues where it's like changing a state
that then changes a render and
then it keeps rendering indefinitely.
So they run it twice so
they can catch that.
In development mode,
all your stuff is gonna run twice.
So that's why we're gonna
see four logs here.
The goal is just to see one, right?
If we do this right,
we should only see this one time.
So in order to do that one,
we got to get out of development mode.
And then two, we don't have to
do anything else we just did it.
So we just need to get out of
development mode and start that.
And we should be able to see if for
sure we'll at least go down to two,
because it's not gonna call our components
twice anymore in production mode.
But we should see it once because we
added the cache, if that makes sense.
Cool.
Okay, so let's do it.
Before we can do that,
we might have to make some changes to
make the production build actually work.
At least in my case, because I couldn't
care less about TypeScript errors.
I have to turn off the TypeScript
errors and the ESLint errors,
otherwise it won't build locally.
So I'm just gonna ignore those for now.
So I could actually build this.
If you try to build this right now,
it might actually freak out.
Actually, I'll show you.
So I'll just say we actually
have a command for this.
So if you go to package.json, you see
there's a command here that says build.
So if you run npm run build,
it's gonna build it.
If it builds successfully,
we want to start it, right?
So let's try that.
Creating optimized production builds.
And you can see right here,
it failed to compile.
And the reason it failed to compile
is because TypeScript errors.
All right.
I could just fix those, but I have my
AI turned off, so I'm not gonna fix.
Instead I'm just gonna ignore this stuff.
And the way I can do that is go to
my Next.js config can go in here.
I can say, hey, for TypeScript, can you
just ignore those build errors please?
And then also for ESLint, can you
ignore those during the build as well?
I'm a big fan of TypeScript
at dev time in the editor.
I don't really like it at build time.
It's kind of annoying in my head.
I don't care.
I just want it to work in my editor.
I wanna see the squigglies, but I don't
want you yelling at me when I deploy.
That's just a preference of mine, I guess.
Cool.
So now if I run build,
you can see it tried to get
current user there multiple times.
And this is actually really cool.
We can show this.
This is the output of the build and it's
kind of cool how it goes through this.
So if you see a circle, a dot,
next to a route, that means that
that page was statically rendered.
There was nothing dynamic about that page,
so it was pre rendered.
And it's static content,
it's never gonna change.
It's that way for
eternity until you build it again.
If it has an f next to it, which is
like a function, this is a dynamic page.
This page is not statically rendered.
It is a server rendered on demand.
That means when someone goes to this page,
then we will render it.
And that is because most likely you're
touching the cookies, the headers,
fetching data, touching the search params,
the route params.
You're doing something that tells
Next.js that this is a dynamic page and
it should not be statically rendered.
So it does that for you automatically,
which I think is really cool.
Okay, cool.
So we've built this.
Now we can do npm start.
And we can see if our cache works.
If our cache doesn't work, then I
think that's because we got to give it
an argument so
it can actually cache on the key.
But I have a feeling it might work without
a cache key if you don't give it anything.
Let's check it out.
So what we wanna do is just be
able to go to the page here,
refresh that, and there it is -
get current user one time.
Even though we're using it in
two places on the same request.
So in production it'll work.
So don't freak out if you're developing,
you're like,
why is this cache not working?
Development is weird.
Just build it in production and
try it out there.
>> Student: So I have a question
about this, what I'm seeing.
So it's not caching it for
eternity if you're just using
the cache tag from React, right?
It's just caching it once per request,
right?
>> Scott Moss: Per request.
Yeah, this is per request.
Yeah.
>> Student: So yeah,
because I'm still seeing if
you navigate to a new issue,
you're using the getCurrentUser.
>> Scott Moss: It's gonna call it again.
>> Student: Go back.
>> Scott Moss: Yep.
>> Student: But using the stuff from Next.js
if you were to use the cache tags,
it does cache forever.
>> Scott Moss: It does cache forever.
Yep.
>> Student: Until you revalidate.
>> Scott Moss: Yep.
>> Student: Got it.
>> Scott Moss: They honestly should
not call it cache, but I get it.
React already has two
things called memoize.
So they're like, we can't add a third
thing called memoize, but technically it-
>> Student: Is just memoizing the actual
function.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah.
>> Student: Yeah, okay, yeah.
>> Scott Moss: I mean with those three
things, caching, cache revalidating, and
the memoization, you can make some
pretty performant websites pretty easy.
You're in control.
It makes sense.
You can suspend things when you need to,
you can cache things when you need to,
you can just go static when you need to
without really having to think about it.
So again, it is different than
like what you would mostly see.
But like,
once you get past that difference,
it is a very simple developer
experience in my opinion.
Big fan of it.
>> Student: I guess more of
like a big picture question.
So let's say you need a client component
that needed access to your user.
>> Scott Moss: Okay.
>> Student: Would an approach maybe be
like you cache it on the client too?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, so
question was if you have a client
component that needs access to your user.
The way that I would do that?
Well, I guess it depends on if you're
using React Query or something like that.
Okay, using React Query, you can actually
make a server action that gets data.
So I would just make a server action that
gets the user and then I would pass that
server action as the fetcher
function to React Query and then
React Query will just get the user for it-
>> Student: It will cache it on
to the client.
>> Scott Moss: And then React Query
will cache it on the client and
then it's all React Query
land at that point.
>> Student: Yeah, that's very cool.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah.